Nicholas Loyd
Tyson Simms
Assignment 3
Thursday, October 12, 2017
Theodore Roosevelt the Driving Force
	What makes a good president? Could being highly famous, or very charismatic make a good president? What about having an ambitious personality, or a photographic memory, could that help? What if one president could have all of these traits? In this article, I will be discussing why Theodore Roosevelt is the best president we have ever had.
	Theodore Roosevelt was a highly popular president who served two terms. But what made him so famous? He had a magnetic personality which appealed to people from many walks of life. They were attracted to his ideology, genuine care for the people, and his dedication to the United States. Theodore Roosevelt, unlike most presidents, cared for the people. His agenda broke up monopolies of the railroad, banks, and oil giving him the nickname “Trust Buster” (Volkov, Vadim). He was not easily swayed and was able to go up against big business. Roosevelt was a highly ethical person who did not change his views; neither was he persuaded into corrupt ideals. All this together gave him a lot of support by the common man. 
	Theodore Roosevelt was a natural when it came to international relations. The phrase commonly used by Roosevelt, “Speak softly, and carry a big stick” (Roosevelt, “America and the World War”, 34) means: Act civil even when you have a big military and much power, countries are more apt to respect you. He took the United States out of isolationism, was aggressive in foreign affairs, and brought the United States to be seen around the world as a global superpower. Often he acted without the support or consent of Congress (Nye). He took control of the Philippines from Spain and appointed a governing body to the remote island nation as it became a US Territory. President Roosevelt also took the initiative to establish the Panama Canal (Roosevelt, “How the United States Acquired the Right to Dig the Panama Canal”, 314). This act put the United States in a good position for moving goods, supporting international trade, and positioning the US forces in Central America. Theodore Roosevelt also was responsible for the Monroe Doctrine that allowed the United States to serve as the policeman of the Western Hemisphere (Roosevelt, “Patricia O'Toole. In the Words of Theodore Roosevelt”, 22). He was a mediator for peace between Russia and Japan during the Russo-Japanese War. For this, Roosevelt received the Nobel Peace Prize (Nobel Prize). In doing so, he strengthened the United States' relationship with other countries. Finally, towards the end of his presidential term, a navy fleet commonly known as the “Great White Fleet” sailed around the world showing the dominance of the United States and drawing up domestic support for the Navy. 
	More background information on Theodore Roosevelt. He would later become a member of the Rough Riders during the Spanish American war. He then became governor of New York which he then ran for Vice president with William McKinley (Summers). McKinley dies, and then Theodore Roosevelt assumes the presidency. He liberates Panama and constructs that Panama Canal. Roosevelt receives the Nobel Peace Prize for making peace with Japan and Russia. He runs for a third term as a third party candidate that he founded called the “Bull Moose” party, which was the progressive republicans and loss but the legacy of Bull Moose lives on in the Democratic party that we know today (Quigley).
	Theodore Roosevelt was great at compromising with foreign adversaries because of his communication abilities. He was able to make peace with two international superpowers, and he was able to liberate Panama. He was so good with negotiating foreign-policy that, according to Siena College Research, he was rated fourth (out of all presidents) in an expert poll, taken in 2010, as a great communicator (Siena College). 
	Accomplishing tasks internationally is one thing, but performing them domestically is another. By using his negotiating skills, Theodore Roosevelt was able to bring about a significant change to the commonwealth. One of the main ideas that he initiated was his ability, domestically, to break up the trusts also known as monopolies. His central ideology was that the government had the right to regulate big business in order to protect the welfare of society. For example, he acted against the Northern Securities Company when he used the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890 to dismantle the company's monopoly on the securities business. Because of this action, he became known as the “Trust Buster” (Volkov). Other businesses realized even though Roosevelt was a republican president, they would not be able to operate without consideration for the people. 
	Many other acts were to follow. He enacted the Meat Inspection Act, the Food and Drug Act, Child Labor Laws, and the Hepburn Act, to name a few. These acts made food safer and prevented children from being overworked, and regulated standard pricing for transporting goods. He allowed the citizens to become involved in the process as well.
	Theodore Roosevelt was also willing to take risks for the betterment of the country. Because of his integrity, he stood up for what he believed in; he always tried to do the right thing. On multiple occasions, he told other presidents, such as Woodrow Wilson and William Howard Taft, when they were doing wrong. For example, Theodore Roosevelt had supported Taft because they had a similar perspective of breaking up trusts. But Taft took it too far when he wanted to break up the steel trust. Theodore Roosevelt made it public that the steel trust was a good trust and what Taft was doing didn't align with the principles of Rosevelt's ideals. 
	Theodore Roosevelt was also very intelligent. When growing up, Young Roosevelt was a homeschooled student. Having not gone to public schools, he focused his studies in the sciences, geography, and history. His homeschooling prepared him to be a student at Harvard. It was said that he had a near photographic memory in a report. When his father died during his second year at Harvard, he inherited $125,000—, enough to live the rest of his life comfortably. However, he chose to go to further his education at Columbia law.
	Perhaps one of Roosevelt's greatest assets was his ability to lead. He organized and led the the Rough Riders, a voluntary Calvary in the Spanish American War. A quote from Theodore Roosevelt says, “If I have anything at all resembling genius, it is the gift of leadership” (Wagenknecht). Theodore Roosevelt was a man of action. When a President can’t get Congress to pass laws, the President can create an Executive Order. Out of all the presidents, Teddy was fourth in writing the most Executive Orders (Gerhard). 
	After his presidency he continued to live a remarkable life, Theodore Roosevelt went on safari expeditions and hunted various species of animals from around the world which he contributed to the Smithsonian Museum (Lewis 301). He stayed out of the limelight until the outbreak of the Great War. He was a strong supporter of the war effort giving speeches and supporting the bond drives. Theodore Roosevelt died in his sleep January 6, 1919. It was said by Thomas Marshal, "Death had to take him sleeping, for if Roosevelt had been awake there would have been a fight” (Renehan 222).	
	Theodore Roosevelt was a man who had a lot to do with how the country is shaped today. He cared for citizens before big business, he signed many executive orders that improved the lives of the people, and most importantly Theodore was true to himself. He didn’t need to pretend who he was to appease a vote. He was one of the most “true-to-himself” presidents that is country has ever had. These are the traits that make a great president.
Works Cited

Gerhard Peters and John T. Woolley, "Executive Orders." The American Presidency Project. Ed. 			John T. Woolley and Gerhard Peters. Santa Barbara, CA. 1999-2017. Available from the 			World Wide Web: http://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/data/orders.php.

Lewis, William Draper. The Life of Theodore Roosevelt. John C. Winston Company, 1919.
	page 301

Nye Jr, Joseph S. "Transformational leadership and US grand strategy." Foreign Aff. 85 (2006): 			139.

Quigley, Bernie. “The Rise of the Bull Moose Democrats.” TheHill, 2 Jan. 2015, 
thehill.com/blogs/pundits-blog/presidential-campaign/228381-the-rise-of-the-bull-moose-democrats.

Renehan, Edward J. The Lion's Pride: Theodore Roosevelt and His Family in Peace and War. 			Oxford University Press, 2000.
	page 222

Roosevelt, Theodore. America and the World War. C. Scribner's sons, 1917.
	Page 34 

Roosevelt, Theodore. How the United States Acquired the Right to Dig the Panama Canal. 1911. 
	Page 314

Roosevelt, Theodore, and Patricia O'Toole. In the Words of Theodore Roosevelt: Quotations 			from the Man in the Arena. Cornell Univ. Press, 2012.
	page 22

Summers, Robert S. “William McKinley - President of the United States (POTUS).” POTUS: 			Presidents of the United States, 29 Sept. 2017, www.potus.com/wmckinley.html.

Wagenknecht, Edward. The Seven Worlds of Theodore Roosevelt. Lyons Press, 2009.

Volkov, Vadim. "Standard oil and Yukos in the context of early capitalism in the United States 			and Russia." Demokratizatsiya 16.3 (2008): 240.

"Rushmore Plus One; FDR joins Mountainside Figures Washington, Jefferson, Teddy Roosevelt 			and Lincoln as Top Presidents". Siena College. July 1, 2010. Archived from the original 			on July 6, 2010. Retrieved May 19, 2017.

"Theodore Roosevelt - Facts". Nobelprize.org. Nobel Media AB 2014. Web. 13 Oct 2017. 
	http://www.nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/peace/laureates/1906/roosevelt-facts.html
